#summary Amenduino project

= Introduction =

Amenduino plays an ever-changing percussion track. It requires no external hardware other than an audio amplifier and speaker. Amenduino is an interesting introduction to the world of algorithmically generated music.

= Background =

The [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amen_break Amen break] is a short sample of a 1969 B-side, "Amen, Brother" by the Winstons. Due to its clear recording and consistent timing, it was regularly sampled in the 80's as a percussion loop in contemporary music - notably Hip-hop, jungle and drum & bass. As sampling methods improved, the sample was cut and spliced to generate new rhythms - but the sample remains in use to this day.

This project repurposes the Arduino to cut and splice Amen into an infinite stream of customisable ever-changing percussion. The code is tweakable, so you can develop your own cut and splicing algorithms.

= Tweaking guide =

== amenStart[] ==
At the start of the code is a huge array of random data, labelled 'amenStart[]'. This is the compressed audio sample. Leave that alone - you won't need to touch anything there. Scroll right past.

== scaleTable[][] and dacDelta[] ==
These are data tables that are part of the ADPCM decoder. Don't touch.

== lightLed() ==
This controls lights on pins 6, 8, 10 and 12. LEDs on 6,8 and 10 form a simple VU meter. The LED on pin 12 flashes at the start of the pattern, when the cymbal ride is playing.

== swapSlices() ==
This swaps two slices in the playback list.

== adpcmDecodeBlock() ==
This code swaps the beat slices algorithmically, then decodes a 128 sample block of music. This is a good place to tweak beat slicing systems.

== SIGNAL(TIMER2_OVF_vect) ==
This implements the resampling. This code is run 62500 times a second, so if you are modifying here, keep things simple and fast.

== setup() ==
This sets up the PWM, beat slice table and LED pins. It then decodes 2 sample blocks, filling the buffer and starts the playback process.

== loop() ==
The loop routine watches the playback pointer. When it completes playing a block, it runs the decompression code to have the next block ready for playback. This is a good place to put tweak code.


= Overview of some techniques =

== Sound reproduction ==
Timer 2 on the ATmega328 processor is responsible for generating the PWM on pin 3. Amenduino reprograms the timer to run the PWM much faster. It runs at 62.5kHz. This is well above the range of human hearing, so there is no audible whistling. Timer 2 also generates an interrupt 62500 times a second, which runs an interrupt routine. This makes sure the sample is updated in good time.

== Altering sample rate ==
The interrupt routine adds a number to an 8 bit variable. That variable can only store numbers between 0 and 255. Eventually it will cycle over from 255 back to 0 again. When this happens, a new sample from the buffer is stored in the PWM output register. This technique allows the sample rate to be adjusted easily by changing the increment number.

== Double buffering ==
The next 256 samples are calculated ahead of time. Samples are decompressed in blocks of 128. The decompression code makes sure that it only decompresses the second block when the first block is playing, and vice versa. That way it is impossible to hear the buffer while decompression is happening.

== ADPCM decompression ==
The Amen break is a long sample, and a recording of it is too large to fit into the Arduino 328. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ADPCM ADPCM] is a simple audio compression technique that gives better audio quality for a small number of bytes. Adaptive Delta Pulse Code Modulation works by storing the difference between samples (delta) rather than the sample itself. That way quantisation errors are less noticeable. Two bits are stored per sample, so this gives a 4:1 compression for an 8 bit sample. Each 128 sample block also has a global volume level, which is set at compression time to give the best fidelity.

== The sample ==
The sample was resampled to 98304 samples (128 samples * 24 blocks per beat * 32 beats in the pattern) using [http://sox.sourceforge.net SoX]. Each block was then compressed with the ADPCM algorithm at different volume levels. The error rate was measured, and the best match block was used.
