#summary Teapot digital scale - the technological solution to the opaque teapot.

= Introduction =

  Teapots have a problem. You can't tell how full they are just by looking at them. Clearly a problem that can be solved by modern technology.

= Overview =

  We measure the amount of tea within the teapot using a kitchen scale, then represent that using an industrial panel meter. A wireless infrared scale is used - we use the original transmitter, but replace the receiver with a newly designed Arduino based system.

= The Scales =

  This design needed to be clean and neat, and commercial products are often well made and easily available. The nearest product to a tea measuring device is a kitchen scale. The Salter 1200CD digital kitchen scale has a separate measuring pad and readout, allowing us to keep as many wires as possible out of the kitchen. By connecting test points from the receiver into the Line In of a sound card, we captured data packets and examined them using Audacity. The detailed protocol is documented within the source code.

= The Receiver =

  The receiver uses a 38kHz infrared remote receiver, connected to the Arduino.
  The Arduino decodes the protocols, performs the appropriate calculations, and presents the tea fill level to a PWM output.
  The meter is wired with a series resistor, so the PWM output directly controls the needle position.
  Two switches allow setting of the zero (tare) and full position.

= Hardware used =
  [http://www.salterhousewares.com/salter_uk/catalogue/kitchen-scales/multifunction-infared-electronic-kitchen-scale.html Salter 1200 digital kitchen scale]

  [http://uk.rs-online.com/web/search/searchBrowseAction.html?method=getProduct&R=0313671 RS #313-671 Howard Butler 75mV moving coil panel meter]

  [http://uk.rs-online.com/web/search/searchBrowseAction.html?method=getProduct&R=6548930 RS #654-8930 Osram SFH 5110-38 38kHz Infrared receiver / demodulator]

  [http://tinkerit.myshopify.com/products/arduino Arduino]

  [http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/catalog/products/40078049 Ikea Ribba 14cm frame]